Create en_srp-ocp-conflict.adoc (#3)
d-r-q/developing-ergonomic-code: azhidkov.pro/content/posts/21/03/en_210321-project-l-testing.adoc

---
title: "The Tests You Can Trust"
description: How to devise a testing strategy that'll result in 0 (zero) regressions
date: 2021-03-13T13:25:37+07:00
draft: false
---
:source-highlighter: rouge
:rouge-theme: github
:icons: font

I'm working on a project where I'm the lead back-end developer.
Naturally, I'm trying to keep everything in line with my Ergonomic Approach.

The code base will be ergonomic if you have a set of tests you can trust. 

> If the tests pass, it means the release is ready.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the tests pass, it means the build is ready for release.
```

There's no other way around this.

In this post, I'll talk about the testing strategy I'm using for the 'L' Project. 

== The 'L' Project

Since this project is under NDA, I can't disclose much details. 
Here are some key points: 

* The project's goal is to validate a business hypothesis.

> * The 'L' project is supplemental to the client's main app. 

Reviewer: В данном случае customer не будет более точным термином?

It works via a public HTTP API.
* The project's main value is concentrated in the front-end.
For that reason, the back-end features just three business rules.
* Most method implementations within the 'L' project pull data from multiple main app methods.
* Therefore, the 'L' project has a quite complex system of data transformation and caching.

> * The main app has a test framework.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The main app has a test environment.
```

* The 'L' project is quite limited budget- and time limits-wise.

> * I made two mistakes while analyzing one of the steps. Therefore, I had to rework and refactor everything twice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* I made two major mistakes while analyzing one of the iterations. Therefore, I had to rework and refactor everything twice.
```

* https://www.testcontainers.org/[testcontainers]: a library for managing Docker containers in
tests
* http://wiremock.org/[WireMock]: a tool for mocking servers at the HTTP level
* https://rest-assured.io/[Rest-assured] - a DSL for REST services testing.

== Test types

I'm using the following test types in this project: 

* Unit testing
* Database testing
* Main app's API integration testing
* Integration testing
* API testing
* Scenario testing.

In the next step, I'll also add a bunch of load tests for critical scenarios.

All tests are labeled with tags, and you can run each group separately.
In practice, though, I created two extra Gradle tasks for running my tests. 
The first one, allTest, runs everything apart from scenario tests.
The second one, scenarioTest, runs—you've guessed it—the scenario tests only.
The default task, test, runs just the tests with no external dependencies (unit tests, database
tests, and integration tests).

=== Unit tests

Goal:: To check business rules compliance
Interface:: Direct method calling
Internal dependencies*:: None
External dependencies:: None
Number:: 26

Due to the project's character, barely any unit tests are actually used here.

> There are three ones that check the business rule compliance and two ones that parse the main app's response. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are three ones that check the business rule compliance and two ones that check parsing of the main app's responses. 
```

There are 26 unit tests because one of those business rules is validation. 
21 of these all stem from one
https://junit.org/junit5/docs/current/user-guide/#writing-tests-parameterized-tests[parameterized
test].

_* By internal dependencies, I mean the dependencies the test runs for itself. 
By external dependencies, I mean the ones the test is expecting to be running already._

=== Database tests

Goal:: To check the repo implementations
Interface:: Direct method calling
Internal dependencies:: Postgres (in testcontainers)
External dependencies:: None
Number:: 17

These tests should validate the SQL expressions to make sure they're both semantically and

> syntactically correct, as well as mapping objects of the +++<->+++ string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
syntactically correct, as well as mapping objects of the +++<->+++ rows.
```

The database for these tests is set up in a container.

> It will be used for all tests in the run, though.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same instance will be used for all tests in the run, though.
```

External dependencies:: a running app (the backend plus Postgres in docker-compose)
Number:: 37

As you can tell by the number alone, I'm mostly relying on API tests when testing the "L" Project. 
They test the entire system, covering all the basic "happy passes" and dealing with processing all the
expected errors.
For better backward compatibility control, API tests aren't dependent on the main app's modules. 
Therefore, there are duplicate URLs and data structures in them.

There are two kinds of requests—the fixture ones and the control ones.
There's a dedicated class for executing the fixture requests that presents the backend HTTP
interface as a Kotlin class.
The response to these fixture requests doesn't get checked.
Control requests are executed via RestAssured.

=== Scenario tests

Goal:: To check the interaction protocols of the frontend and the backend, as well as of the
project's backend and that of the main app.
Interface:: addressing the backend through HTTP via a custom client.
Internal dependencies:: None.
External dependencies:: a running app (the backend plus Postgres in docker-compose), the main system.
Number:: 8

> These tests look at the backend in production-like environment:

Reviewer: Мне look at глаз режет, может заменить на что-нибудь более "проверяющее"?
